hey this is precious Hawker what is the
correct answer to the following
expression this math problem has gone
viral generating millions of comments on
Facebook Twitter YouTube and other
social media sites in this video I'm
going to present the correct answer we
can solve for the correct answer using
the order of operations these are
commonly remembered as 10 dots or bad
mus and these are a precedence of how we
evaluate operations this will be
parentheses brackets exponents orders
multiplication division and addition
subtraction furthermore if you have
operations of the same precedence you
should evaluate them from left to right
the first part of this expression has no
controversy there's a parenthetical
expression that needs to get evaluated
first we have 9 plus 3 in parentheses so
we evaluate 9 plus 3 to get 12 now
there's a question of what to do next if
you input this expression into any
scientific calculator you will see that
it will interpret this to parenthesis 12
as an implicit multiplication so we need
to convert this parentheses into an
implicit multiplication of 2 times 12 we
now continue with the order of
operations we have a division and a
multiplication as we have operations of
the same precedence we should evaluate
them from left to right so we take 48
divided by 2 and that gets us to 24 and
now we have a final expression of a
multiplication which is 24 times 12 and
that is equal to correct answer of 288
this is without a doubt the correct
answer to this expression according to
the modern interpretation of the order
of operations so why is there so much
controversy about this problem
well let's return to the expression it
turns out the order of operations did
historically have
exception I found a math paper in 1917
that noted a special exception using the
division symbol this may have been used
in school for many more years and some
of you may even learn under this rule so
when we go under this interpretation we
still start out the same way we have a
parenthetical expression 9 plus 3 and we
evaluate that first so this becomes 12
the question is what to do next
so historically there was some usage
that if you use this division symbol you
would divide everything on the left by
everything on the right text alyssum may
have written X divided by 2y to mean X
divided by the quantity 2y as you can
see in terms of typesetting it would
have been much easier to write x
division symbol 2y rather than writing
the slash and then parentheses around
the 2 Y you would end up writing a lot
of slashes and a lot of parentheses it
wouldn't be very easy to read and so it
would have been much more convenient to
write x division symbol to Y and just
everyone would understand that 2y is
grouped together so if you were to use
this historical interpretation how would
we evaluate our expression using the
special rule we have something on the
left which is 48 and something on the
right which is 2 parenthesis 12 so if we
group the terms on the left and the
right we then have 48 over 2 times 12
we now simplified the denominator which
has a multiplication 2 times 12 will be
equal to 24 and then we finish out 48
divided by 24 which is equal to 2 so
this would have been considered the
correct answer historically using the
kind of inline typesetting of the
division symbol nowadays we don't use
this and you can see that calculators
don't evaluate the expression this way
so the correct answer under the modern
interpretation is 288 did you get that
answer
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and puzzles you can catch me on my
blog mind your decisions which you can
follow on Facebook Google+ and patreon
you can catch me on social media app for
soccer and if you like this video please
check out my books there are links in
the video description